README-DOCKER.md, before:

## Docker Instructions

### PreReqs
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Build Docker Container
`docker build -t validator .`

### Find Docker Recent Image Hash
`docker images`

### Run Docker Cantainer
Copy docker image hash found from the `docker images` command.
`docker run -v <host directory containing files>/:/<docker directory that will mount the host> <docker image ID> <schema file> <json file>`

For Example:
`docker run -v $(pwd)/schemas/:/schemas d38ebf40991947a378094e234b4fdb7adeb715da605b704cad07e6714d4b8867 schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates.json schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates-fee-for-service-sample.json`

#### Commands
`docker run` Docker will run the docker image passed to it.
`-v <host file>/:/<docker directory>` The <docker directory> will attempt to mount the absolute path directory on the host machine

### Build Docker Container with a specific github tag
List of tags can be found [here](https://github.com/CMSgov/price-transparency-guide/tags)
`docker build -t shaselton/validator --build-arg VERSION=v0.2 .`

Commit message:

Accept optional command line argument for output file
If a third argument is provided, it is used as the output file path.
If it is not provided, stdout and stderr are used.
Note that to actually get the output file, it will need to be written
to a directory that is mounted from the host.

README-DOCKER.md, after:

## Docker Instructions

### PreReqs
[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Build Docker Container
`docker build -t validator .`

### Find Docker Recent Image Hash
`docker images`

### Run Docker Cantainer
Copy docker image hash found from the `docker images` command.
`docker run -v <host directory containing files>/:/<docker directory that will mount the host> <docker image ID> <schema file> <json file>`

For Example:
`docker run -v $(pwd)/schemas/:/schemas d38ebf40991947a378094e234b4fdb7adeb715da605b704cad07e6714d4b8867 schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates.json schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates-fee-for-service-sample.json`

Example with optional output file:
`docker run -v $(pwd)/schemas/:/schemas -v $(pwd)/output/:/output abdf0d8512a8 schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates.json schemas/in-network-rates/in-network-rates-fee-for-service-single-plan-sample.json output/my_output.txt`

#### Commands
`docker run` Docker will run the docker image passed to it.
`-v <host file>/:/<docker directory>` The <docker directory> will attempt to mount the absolute path directory on the host machine

### Build Docker Container with a specific github tag
List of tags can be found [here](https://github.com/CMSgov/price-transparency-guide/tags)
`docker build -t shaselton/validator --build-arg VERSION=v0.2 .`
